
		  Overview of the OGI Multi-language
		    Telephone Speech Corpus (MLTS)

The OGI Multi-language Telephone Speech Corpus consists of telephone
speech from 11 languages.  The initial collection, collected by
Yeshwant Muthusamy for his Ph.D. thesis research, included 900
calls--- 90 calls each in 10 languages.  The languages are: English,
Farsi, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Mandarin, Spanish, Tamil and
Vietnamese.  It is from this initial set that Yeshwant established
training (50), development (20) and test (20) sets for his work.  The
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) uses the same 50
- 20 - 20 set that Yeshwant established.  The corpus is used by NIST
for evaluation of automatic language identification.  For official
traiing and test sets contact alvin@jaguar.nist.gov.

For more information on the original collection, there are the
following two papers:

Y. K. Muthusamy, "A Segmental Approach to Automatic Language
Identification," Ph.D. Thesis, OGI Technical Report No. CSLU 93-002,
Nov.  24, 1993.

Y. K. Muthusamy, R.  A. Cole and B. T. Oshika, "The OGI Multi-language
Telephone Speech Corpus," Proceedings of the International Conference
on Spoken Language Processing, Banff, Alberta, Canada, October 1992.


	IMPORTANT NOTE: The statistics described in the paper are
	based on *all* the calls verified and evaluated to the date of
	its pubication, i.e. 1345 total; 246 in English, average of
	122 in the remaining nine languages. However, some of these
	calls were incomplete: they did not contain all 10 utterances.
	Placing the restriction that each call have at least 6
	utterances gives us 90 calls in some of the languages. To
	ensure that the data from each language was of comparable
	size, 90 was the number of choice.
	
	Thus, the first release of the corpus contains 90 calls from
	each language, with a 50-20-20 division into training,
	development and final-test sets. This is consistent with the
	training and test sets used at OGI. Currently, our language
	identification research does NOT use the 4 fixed-vocabulary
	utterances from these calls.


Broad phonetic labels accompany the initial speech data.  There are
500 utterances labeled for each of the ten languages (two utterances
per call for 25 calls per language).  The seven broad phonetic classes
are vowel, fricative, silence or closure, stops, pre-vocalic sonorant,
inter-vocalic sonorant, post-vocalic sonorant.

Later the corpus was extended with additional recordings for each of
the ten above, plus 200 Hindi calls were added, making a total of 11
languages collected.

Also added to the initial corpus were new log files which used native
speakers to verify calls.


For the initial data collection by Yeshwant Muthusamy, each caller was
asked a series of questions designed to elicit:
	- fixed, useful vocabulary speech
	- domain-specific vocabulary speech
	- unrestricted vocabulary speech.

Fixed vocabularies were collected in response to the following prompts
(the number in parentheses equals the seconds of recording after the
prompt):
	-  What is you native language? (3 s)
	-  What language do you speak most of the time? (3 s)
	-  Please recite the seven days of the week. (8 s)
	-  Please say the numbers zero through ten.  (10 s)

Topic-specific descriptions were obtained in response to the following 
prompts:
	-  Tell us something that you like about your hometown.  (10 s)
	-  Tell us about the climate in your hometown.  (10 s)
	-  Describe the room that you are calling from.  (12 s)
	-  Describe your most recent meal.  (10 s)

Elicited free speech was obtained by asking callers to speak for one
minute on any topic of their choice. (60 s)

For the extended data, a different protocol was used, as follows:

Thank you for calling the Oregon Graduate Institute language database.
We are currently recording speech in Hindi.  We are studying the
different languages of the world.  To do this, we need to record
Samples of speech from fluent speakers of Hindi.  Please respond to
the following questions and instructions in Hindi only. Please wait
for the beep before speaking. This will take about 5 minutes. Please
wait for the beep before speaking.

1. What is your native language?

2. What language do you speak most of the time?

3. What language do you speak at home?

4. How old are you?

5. What is your date of birth?

6. Are you male or female?

7. Were you born and raised in the United States?

8. What city and state did you spend most of your childhood?

9. What is your zipcode?

10. What area code are you calling from?

11. What day is today?

12. What time is it?

13. For each of the following descriptions, we will record the first
ten seconds of your answer.  Begin speaking at the beep. A second beep
will indicate when we have finished recording your answer to each
question.

(pause)

14. Describe the route you take to work or to the store.

15. Tell us something that you like about your hometown.

16. Tell us about the climate in your hometown.

17. Describe the room you are calling from.

18. Describe your most recent meal.

19. We now want you to talk for a longer period of time.  We do not
care what you say as long as you keep talking.  You can tell us
anything about yourself, your hobbies and interests, the city that you
live in, and the sports that you like.  Or you can make up a story,
tell a fairy-tale or recite a poem.  You will have 1 minute to speak.
We will now give you 10 seconds to think about what to say. Please do
not read anything, we would prefer you make something up.

(pause)

20. Please begin talking at the beep.  You will hear a second beep
when you have 10 seconds left.

21. You have 10 seconds to complete your story.

22. If you are calling from a touch tone phone, please push the number
2 button.
    
23. Would you like to receive a gift certificate for MacDonalds or for
TCBY frozen yogurt?

24. Thank you for your participation.If you would like a gift
certificate please leave your name, address, and gift certificate
selection.  Your name and address will be kept confidential.

